[Music]
so
all right so i'll give the link below if
you want to see on screen
exactly what it was vegan gaines said
and exactly what i said
in reply to him and what i assume or
even what i hope
is the last conversation i ever have
with this guy
but um you guys already know i was
pushing him on the issue of having
a meaningful life and
he really did not want to reply to that
he really didn't want to deal with the
question
i was talking about having a morally
upstanding life oh stein would having an
intellectually rewarding
life moving forward positively
and kind of the last um
dodge or deflection he engaged in was
instead trying to answer about how much
money he makes
how he makes more money than i do which
is just it's just misdirection it's just
not the topic of conversation
you know do you want to go into real
estate you can make a lot more money in
real estate than on youtube
but that's not what we're talking about
you know um we were talking about the
difference leading a meaningful life in
a meaningless one and how to grow older
how to grow wiser while growing older
instead of just playing video games
and living a kind of self-indulgent life
and this kind of thing anyway
so he finally did answer the question of
what kind of person does he want to be
in five to ten years now he's gonna get
there
by just bragging about how much money he
makes and by claiming that playing video
games is justified because you can make
so much money doing it and this was my
reply
quote does anyone here think that vegan
gains would make
less money if he actually followed the
advice
set out in this video would he receive
less
in donations if he directly imitated the
two examples
in the video of people who engaged in
humanitarian work with syrian refugees
do you think he'd become a worse person
if he started caring about the real
world
in terms of reading and learning not
just humanitarian engagement
as opposed to playing video games anyone
so there are a lot of
funny little ironies built into this um
i know
vegan gains has wanted to talk tough
about islam in the past he's wanted to
offer a very harsh
criticism of islam well
um you know he could especially from his
position of privilege frankly in terms
of his
level of fame and income from you know
sharing his pins in the internet
he could have raised money and gone over
and got involved and done humanitarian
work
in um you know really anywhere in the
muslim world
he could have gone to afghanistan what
have you and he could have started
producing
much more well-informed deep and
profound reflections
on you know the cultural effects of
islam and what's wrong with it and the
knock-on effects it has on people's
lives
whether it's on people's psychology
education gender roles or what have you
um i know he made videos in the past in
a really shallow way
just keeping scorn on islam go out there
live with it
see what it does to people and you know
try to make a positive difference
he could have gotten involved with i
mean i'm just saying uh you know he's
also keep scoring on feminism
you know in a really shallow way well
you could put those
two together what about getting involved
with women's education
in afghanistan you know i.e trying to
oppose the tendency of the taliban and
other muslim extremists
their tendency to exclude women from
having access to education
to actually getting out and fighting for
women's equality through education
whether in afghanistan or whatever
anywhere in the in the muslim world
what about again if he came onto that i
don't think anyone could say
that vegan gains would have less public
support and less interest
if he actually did take on a sincerely
humanitarian engagement with the muslim
world
syria happened to be the example we
talked about
now this takes me to the main topic i
want to discuss in this video
which is hope and when vegan gains first
came on the scene i remember him being
interviewed
actually by a huge range of people i
remember being interviewed by uh
the amazing atheist on his show that was
then called the drunken peasants
i remember him being interviewed by a
happy healthy vegan
um when vegan gains first achieved a
certain level of fame
there was real excitement attached to
hope
right and the hope was that he was going
to play some kind of positive role
in leading the vegan movement and
instead what we've all learned
with the passage of time and repetition
is that there is there is
there is no hope um he is never going to
do anything positive for anyone
as as i just discussed with him you know
face to face it was just in a written
format going back and forth
he is never going to do anything but sit
in his ass and live a
life devoted to short-term
self-indulgence playing video games
whatever
makes them feel happy in the moment what
is a life
of complete indulgence there's no answer
there is no
complete self-indulgence right
but the opposite there is complete
devotion
to doing the right thing because it's
the right thing to do
there is complete devotion to doing the
best you can
being devoted to make the world a better
place to being a better person yourself
and part of that is indeed making the
commitment hey
my life is not just about feeling good
it's not just about chasing a feeling
it's not about how i feel it's not even
just about what i know
it's about fundamental questions of
right and wrong
[Music]
in terms of what i'm doing on this
channel
and in terms of what i'm doing with my
life
i've said again and again i'm not
interested
in optics i'm not interested
in cultivating the appearance of being a
good person
i'm not interested in the marketing
or public relations reality
of seeming to be a good person
whether that's on social media or as the
leader of
a political movement or as an activist
i'm really interested
in the question of being and becoming
a better person and it is strangely
moving
for me to listen to that video clip
you've also just heard
where i'm suggesting to vegan gains hey
you know
you really have the money in the bank
you've got the viewers and you've got
the fame if you're interested
in islam if you're interested in
presenting a critique
of islam you can go to afghanistan
you can go to afghanistan as a filmmaker
you can go to afghanistan as a youtuber
as a vlogger whatever you want to say as
a social commentator
like you can go and have that experience
and come back and talk about what it
means
you're interested in the critique of
feminism you could go and interview
some of the feminists who are there
trying to provide schooling and
education and literacy to
children and you know again i'm not
saying you have to lose your sense of
humor i mean you could go and do that
and then make youtube videos with the
contrast between feminism
in a starkly muslim contrast like
humanitarian work in afghanistan
and what you see on university campuses
in toronto
fine you know like there's so much
creative
potential there but you look back at
that
and whatever you may think of vegan
gains
the man he is the man he has become
you recognize there was this awesome
potential for personal growth
for personal change for him to be for
him to become
a better person if he would just
in this sense live up to his own hype
if he would just go down the rabbit hole
and pursue his own
interests beyond the short-term
satisfaction of sitting in front of a
camera
fatuously passing judgment on things
that he's never even done
five minutes of research on that he's
never even read a wikipedia article
about
i made this video partly because i
thought it was important
just in terms of fair play to provide
the context for that bizarre
quotation that email he sent me where
he's saying something incoherent about
helping syrian refugees
to let you know what the context for
that discussion was
but also it has stuck in my mind that a
colleague in the vegan movement asked me
what do i think richard's motivation was
what was it in the past and what is it
now why is it
that he's doing the bizarre and aberrant
things that he does
and i had to say back honestly
if you check out the interview i did
with vegan gains years and years ago
back when we were friends but interview
he did for my channel
you'll notice that when i ask him what
is he planning to do
in the future what does he think he's
going to do the next five years of his
life
what's he going to do in terms of
activism leadership in the vegan
movement
what he says is that he wants to buy a
house
he wants to make a ton of money he wants
to be rich and famous
and buy a house what he said to me in
that interview i believe
and also in other conversations was that
all he wants to do
is sit around play video games whenever
he wants to
wake up whenever he wants to become rich
and famous
like live streamers like pewdiepie and
ninja
playing video games making no effort at
all he wants
in this sense to remain forever
in a playpen or you might say in a
pig pen of reckless short-term
self-indulgence that is in brief
the tragedy of vegan gains and i know
for everyone in the audience
if you just stop and reflect on your own
life whether it was a period of
six months or a period of six years
there's some period of your life where
you felt that way
you live that way and there might even
now
be a temptation for you to live that way
so in this sense
there's a really important lesson for us
one at all
to look at vegan gains reflect on what
it means
to have a meaningful life for ourselves
what kind of sacrifices
what kind of commitment it's going to
take
there is no particular destination
in afghanistan that i'm saying vegan
gains
should have gone to there is no
particular
purpose to that trip or that journey
and it didn't have to be afghanistan it
could have been
numerous other countries anywhere on the
map
the journey we're talking about here is
of challenging
your own ignorance challenging your own
indolence challenging your own
childishness and then discovering
yourself to be
constructing yourself into
some kind of adult becoming the person
that it is
you want to be fashioning yourself into
the instrument
of your own philosophy and to do that
you don't have to go to afghanistan you
don't have to come from
or go to any place whatsoever
but you've got to start asking yourself
hard questions
and you have to start coming up with new
answers
that make you uncomfortable because
fundamentally
you've got to feel uncomfortable with
the person
that you already are